Having your protagonist lose his memory is really convenient. It saves you the trouble of explaining how he ends up in a parallel universe. Or at least, you don't have to do it at the start of the story. This way, your introductory paragraph can be filled with more interesting things. Like explaining why memory loss is convenient.

In fact, memory loss is so convenient, that many authors end up thinking of creative ways to explain why their protagonist lost his memory. Some authors even revolve their entire plot around it. Though that is often because any author who subjects his main character through a convenient loss of history, probably doesn't have enough of an imagination to conjure up a real plot.

Enter our protagonist. Jaq. Who has conveniently lost his memory.

He still remembered how to speak, because it's not fun to spend the first chapter of your story teaching your main character about language. Unless you happen to be a professor of linguistics. Or a child psychologist. This author is neither. 

He retained all of his motor skills. Although he almost didn't, just so the author could have some fun writing about the joys of learning to walk. But it wasn't worth the trouble. So Jaq could walk and run and crawl around like a regular adult. He also could drive a car - though for the purposes of this story, he had forgotten what a car was. There will, however, be horses. And perhaps Jaq, not knowing what it is exactly he has learnt how to drive, will attempt to guide horses with a steering wheel.

Jaq didn't actually remember his name. He had opened his eyes, not having remembered sleeping (which isn't a convenient plot device - most people don't remember sleeping). He saw a man in a white robe. "Your name is Jaq", the robed man had said.

"How do you spell that?" Jaq asked.

"J-a-q."

"Bleh. Not a fan. Could I choose another name?"

The man in the robe shrugged. "You could simply choose not to believe me." He sighed. "Maybe you want to believe that you're a Simon. Or a Dorothy."

Jaq didn't like making choices. Especially not one as important as choosing his own name. So he deferred to the robed man. He looked wise, anyway. And seemed to know stuff. "Fine. My name is Jaq."

The robed man smiled. "That was easy!" He seemed relieved. "Almost everyone spends the first hour asking me to prove that I know what their name is. Or that I didn't just make it up on the spot. But I guess, they've all been brought over here to ask questions. And I'm all they have to talk to."

Jaq didn't know what to say, so he said nothing.

The robed man said nothing. For a while, they both just stood there. Then the robed man came to a decision. "You know what? I'm tired of all that 'where am I' and 'what am I doing here' humdrummery. Just... go. Do your thing. I'm sure you're perfectly capable of finding out all the important things on your own."

And as a large set of double doors shut behind him, Jaq found himself alone, in front of a very short tower, in the middle of the forest, next to a lake. The tower behind him, where he had come from, wasn't much of a tower at all. It was about as wide as the doors from which he had came out of. And about 2 storeys tall. Presumably, the man in the white robe lived in the second storey. And whatever business he had with people who had lost their memories happened on the first floor.

Now, Jaq felt worried. He knocked on the double doors of the tower.

There was no reply. Also, the tower was getting shorter. In fact, it was sinking into the ground. Which had started out as a convenient way to avoid travelling salesmen, and had turned out to have a variety of other uses.

The tower's roof became the ground. Jaq thought about it, then started stomping around.

Ten seconds later. "GOD DAMMIT." The voice came from underground, filled with the voice of someone who regrets not investing in soundproof ceilings. "GO WEST."

Jaq continued stomping. "Which way is west?" He inquired. It's not that he didn't remember how to find his way around - he was simply starting to learn that perhaps wherever he was, the rules were very different. Sinking towers in the middle of a forest, for example, didn't sit very well with him.

As Jaq soon found out, west was, apparently, towards the setting sun. Because inventing a whole celestial system takes a lot of effort. So it's easier to just make the sun behave the same way everyone is used to.