"How does an order which teaches its children how to play with fire... die in a fire?" Jaq figured that there was enough alcohol in their blood to perhaps successfully probe on the issue.

Luckily, Boo Lin agreed with his assessment. "Well, Gil, you know the story well enough. You start."

"It's not actually too surprising. If you have a bunch of people who think that putting out fires is really simple, then they're going to keep starting fires." Gil said.

"It got to a point where we stopped figuring out how to solve real problems." Boo Lin cut in. "We just figured out how to make it so that the fire was the only problem."

"Wat." Exclaimed Jaq.

"For example, lets say I see someone covered in ants. I have no idea of what the best way to get rid of the ants is. But I do know how to get rid of a fire, and I know the fire the get rid of ants..."

"For a brief period of time," interrupted Gil "immolation was a really 'hot'... I mean, popular, injury."

"Right. Just an example." Said Boo Lin. "We soon learnt that it was bad to set fire to living things. But lots of problems still got solved by us setting things aflame."

"So anyway, the senior leadership one day had a dispute about whether the temple was peach-white or oyster-white. Through a series of logical deductions, they concluded tha tthe only way to resolve this dispute was to set the temple on fire."

"But then multiple masters tried using multiple incompatible methods of putting out the fire, which resulted in a resolution paradox. Everyone in the building pretty much died instantly."

Jaq: "But you weren't in the building."

"I was, fittingly, in a secret meeting to stop logicians from setting fire to things. We didn't have a very convincing argument against it then. Well... we do now."

Boo Lin knew what the next question would be. "I can explain, inprecisely, the mechanics of why putting out a fire in different ways would cause a paradox. But that -" he looked Jaq right in the eye, with surprising sombreness, "would require a clear head".

So Boo Lin wouldn't talk about this without being drunk, and he couldn't discuss it while drunk. That, Jaq thought, was quite the conondrum.